# Capstone-Project
Analyzed the Customer satisfaction data to identify the operational issues that lead to a low satisfaction rating from the customers.
The data in the in the file contained the customer reviews. The comments were in the character format and required use of text mining or sentiment analysis. A method for computationally identifying and categorizing opinions expressed in a piece of text, especially in order to determine whether the writer's attitude towards a particular topic, product, etc., is positive, negative, or neutral.

tm package provides a comprehensive text mining framework for R. It presents techniques for count-based analysis methods, text clustering, and text classification and string kernels. CleanText is a general set of text-cleaning rules. It changes everything to lower case, removes numbers and punctuation except in contractions, ensures that most contractions with omitted apostrophes get those apostrophes inserted, and removes specified stop words. A 'neutralize' option replaces all empty strings with the word 'neutral' (for purposes of the sentiment-analysis function in this package). A vector of words to remove can also be passed to the function.

classify_emotion function helps us to analyze some text and classify it in different types of emotion: anger, disgust, fear, joy, sadness, and surprise. classify_polarity in contrast to the classification of emotions, the classify polarity function allows us to classify some text as positive or negative. gsub() function replaces all matches of a string, if the parameter is a string vector, returns a string vector of the same length and with the same attributes (after possible coercion to character). Elements of string vectors which are not substituted will be returned unchanged (including any declared encoding). The package provides a simple way to compute the stems of
each word in a character vector via the function wordStem(). This is important in text analysis such as documents and email. grepl search for matches to argument pattern within each element of a character vector: they differ in the format of and amount of detail in the results.

The output of the text analysis is extracting key variables such as Delivery person, Delivery time, Salesperson, Price, Store and Product from the customer comments. The variables are then classified based on polarity and emotions displayed in the comments for each associated variable. This classification of the variables allows for further analysis in determining the level of impact of these variables on the customer rating provide for a particular purchase. This is achieved by developing a predictive model to measure sensitivity of each variable towards customer rating.
